hi I'm dr. Pat Williams from Murray
State University and today I'd like to
give you some helpful hints on starting
your seeds indoors for healthy
transplants outside first thing I do is
consult my fairy Morris seed packets
most seeds will take about four to six
weeks indoors before being transplanted
outside my next step in the process is
grabbing the fairy Morris jiffy 7 tray
and getting ready to transplant I've
been using jiffy plugs since 1974 and
I've come to rely on the quality first
thing to do is remove the clear cover
this will be your greenhouse cover after
planting the pellets are in a dry State
at this point we need to add one cup of
warm water it'll take about an hour to
fully rehydrate and the pellets will
reach about an inch to an inch and a
half tall depending on the size of your
seed I plant two to three seeds per
pellet make a small hole drop in
according to the instructions as far as
depth goes and cover that up after
everything's planted I want to make sure
that I remove any excess moisture that's
in the bottom of the tray and place my
greenhouse cover on top the most
important part of the next process is
having good bottom heat which can be
supplied by your fairy Morris heat pad
place it on the bottom heat and use your
fairy Morris grow lights to provide the
maximum amount of light intensity for
good healthy growth in about three to
four days your seedlings will start to
germinate once you have about 50 percent
germination on the heating pad remove
your protective covering this will allow
the humidity to drop back down keep your
lights about six inches above the top of
the plants as everything has germinated
select the strongest seedling per pellet
and clip the other two out or three with
a scissors continue to grow if you're
going to have the pellets inside for
that full length to four to six weeks it
wouldn't hurt to put an all-purpose
fertilizer in
at that point keep your day temperatures
cool after the plants have germinated
turn off the bottom heat and keep the
light bright turn the lights off at
night the plants need a rest just like
we do and in about 4 to 6 weeks you'll
have a healthy and happy transplant to
go outside the last step in getting your
transplants outside is making sure
they're planted correctly it's rather
simple process dig your hole and the
only thing you really have to make sure
is that the netting is slightly covered
you don't need to remove the netting
just make sure that the peat moss that's
on top of the pellet will not wick away
moisture by covering a little soil water
in and the plants will be fine
you